Thanks
the Great Wall of China is a feat of
engineering unequaled anywhere in the
world at anytime
is a story that spans more than 3,000
years of human technology
the history of a nation is told in the
battlements and Bruins that stretch for
more than an incredible 4,500 miles from
the mountains of Korea to the
inhospitable wastes of the Gobi Desert
the same distance as flying from Miami
to the North Pole
hidden in this immense structure is the
bloody history of the Chinese nation
a nation made possible only by the
technological prowess and staggering
manpower that offered its rulers the
means to build the ultimate defense
a border wall that overcame both China's
enemies and nature itself just on flat
ground I mean it had to go over hills
and mountains and everything like that
the early wall builders had no choice
but to use local materials most of the
Qin Great Wall was constructed from
beaten clay these men are using the same
methods to restore a section of the wall
stone was not always available so tamped
earth became the first choice of
building material the builders here
carefully select earth from at least
four inches below the surface so that it
does not contain seeds or grasses which
could germinate and undermine the
strength of the structure teams of men
then pound the earth into four inch
thick layers which are built up to the
final height in this case 20 feet
although the tapped earth wall is very
simple this process produced a structure
so strong that many sections are still
standing 2,000 years after their
construction damu forcing the nomads
north
to consolidate these victories the hand
said about marking out the new extended
border of China
in many areas they simply restored the
chin wall but in the deserts of the
northwest they had to build on a
landscape so barren that new methods of
all construction had to be devised
the remains of the wall in the western
desert reveal the ingenuity of its
builders
here the local earth is a very poor
quality gravel a grid it made up of sand
and stones the internal construction of
gravel and twigs is still clearly
visible send a woman back and ordered on
time this part of the great war is
unique the method and materials used to
construct it are very different from
those used in mountains and lowland
regions even though it has had to
withstand attack of the wind and the Sun
for more than two thousand years as
maintained is majestic appearance which
we can still enjoy
in the Gobi Desert Red Willow is one of
the few plants to survive the intense
heat of summer and temperatures which
can fall as low as minus 30 degrees
Fahrenheit in winter here local farmers
are demonstrating how they have built
walls in this wilderness for thousands
of years the farmers painstakingly build
the wall up layer by layer a frame is
held in place by pegs then grit and
water are mixed and thrown on top of the
reeds and willow twigs the red willow is
used to strengthen the layers of gravel
in the same way that builders today
suspend steel rods and concrete to
strengthen and stabilize modern
structures
the edges are hammered with hand tools
and then the lair is tapped until the
gravel reads and read willow form a
compact strata of the wall this tamping
process on a wall this size can take up
to an hour for each layer finally when
the wall is complete the frame is
removed
this small five foot high wall took six
people two days to build
using these techniques and hundreds of
thousands of men the Han were able to
build the wall far into the desert
and oily clay was used as a skin or
coating this not only made the wall
difficult to scale but also preserved
the wall against weather erosion